# BaseballPredictions
Final project for the Math512 (Contemporary Applications of Mathematics) course at University of Delaware. 
More information can be found in this [paper](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=0B21tgVksEvzLN0NVLS1TTjRRNHc).

We seek to build a mathematical model from which we can make predictions about the outcome of any given at bat situation. To that end, we want to be able to predict the likelihood of each possible outcome given a situation where the batter, pitcher, and game invariants are known before the at bat starts. Currently, formulas exist to approximate these types of interactions, such as the log5 formula and simple linear regression formulas. These formulas use common statistics tracked and reported on baseball websites, but typically ignore other possibly relevant and important factors for sake of simplicity. We hope to improve upon these methods by taking into account more information in our models. In particular, we want to utilize data tracked on pitches, as this type of information often provides a unique insight into the behavior of the players involved in the pitch.
Once we develop a model, we must be able to evaluate the quality of its predictions. To do this, we are going to use two well-known objective functions: log-loss and Brier score. These scoring metrics are often used to rank probabilistic classifiers and both have the property that the expected score is minimized when the assigned probabilities match the true probabilities. Our formal objective is to construct a mathematical model that attains the lowest possible log-loss score. The Brier score has a decomposition that will be used to understand where the model thrives and where it needs work. Brier Score will be discussed in more detail in the results section.
